My guest today is William Hockey, the
founder of Column. William was also the
co-founder of Plaid, one of the more
famous fintech businesses from the last
decade. Column is his second business,
which he's built from scratch, and
funding it entirely himself, [music]
and building it his way. I think you
will find this conversation utterly
fascinating, not just because of the
incredible quality of the business that
he's built, but how maniacal he is about
studying and implementing [music] ideas
in this specific field. This is a great
example of a founder that is winning
because he is willing to do everything.
My favorite example from our
conversation today is that he went and
found some obscure book about some
ancient bank in Japan, and found one
idea buried in the 2,000 pages that gave
him a simple idea for his product. He's
willing to do that over and over again,
and he explains his very different,
maybe even heretical views on a lot of
what's happening in the world of
startups and technology today. He offers
a very different way of building that I
think will be inspiring and interesting
to those that want to build a company.
Please enjoy my conversation with
William Hockey.
Usually I don't start [music] with a
description of the company that
someone's building.
But in your case, uh one, I don't think
a lot of people are yet familiar with
Column, and I want to fix that. And it's
such an interesting beast in and of
itself that it'll it'll be our excuse to
talk about many fascinating things in
the world. Can you just start by
explaining what the business is and
does? At a high level, we are a software
company that also owns a bank. And what
we do is we say, "Okay, we have this
interesting regulatory moat with a bank
that most other people don't have, and
we're going to build this incredible
software behind it that nobody else can
build because they're not a bank." We
started out by surveying a lot of
software companies that want to get into
financial services in the US. So, we're
the back end infrastructure that powers
the payments, deposits, credit of
amazing companies like Built, Wise,
Ramp, Brex, Mercury, these type of
companies. They run on our software and
on our regulatory rails. And we also
expand that to anybody wanting to do
things with the global dollar. So, that
could be international FinTechs, that
could be a lot of times global banks or
banks in emerging markets that need to
transact holdings in the dollar. So, in
the US, you have, you know, vertical
software, people building business
software. This is an area that is, you
know, probably going to get changed as
AI kind of rolls through. So, people
need to go deeper down into the
business. Just building software for
software's sake is not the case. And so,
now people actually need to control the
underlying finances of a business. The
Brex, Ramps, of kind of the world have
proven that you can actually build
enterprise software that also touches
the money. But in order to do that, you
actually have to control the dollar. You
have to control the money, whether it's
the lending money, holding credit, etc.
And so, we just expose a set of
primitives and APIs to allow anybody to
do that super easily.
>> Could you maybe like pick a customer
that people might recognize and describe
literally what services or products they
use and then how they pay you for those
products or services? Just to like
really nail it home. So, maybe I'll use
a a company out here that recently
relaunched, company called Built, which
is made a lot of New Yorkers have, a lot
of people in cities have. If you look at
the card on the back, it says like, you
know, like issued by Column. So, we're
the one that is actually connecting with
the networks, managing the networks, and
we're actually the regulated entity
behind that. And then when you need to
go pay your rent or your landlord is
going to deduct money from your Built
account, if you look at like, oh, the
account and routing number there? Oh,
that's actually a Column account routing
number. So, they build the application,
they build the website, they build the
consumer marketing, and we're going to
handle everything kind of behind the
scenes that has to deal with the Federal
Reserve or TCH or the card networks or
Swift. We're the one
that I of build the software for that
and handle all that complexity. We are
technically a bank, but unlike banks, we
make 90 plus percent of our money off of
software. And so, similar to a any kind
of SaaS company, it's a per API call.
It's a pure play tech business. And then
we pass most of the economics in the
actual bank side of the business down to
all of our customers. One of the things
I love whenever we talk is you've always
been somewhere strange and interesting.
Kinshasa, I think was the last time we
were together. I don't know a lot of
founders going to Kinshasa very often.
Why are you so often in interesting kind
of bizarre locales around the world?
>> This is my second company. And I started
Plaid back in 2012. It's very easy
to stay in Silicon Valley. It's like
quality life is amazing.
Um there's a lot of money to be had.
There's a lot of super smart people. But
you can start to get quite isolated. And
you can start to get very consensus
focused. Quite a lot of you listeners
read Dan Wang's last letter on China.
And he has this like great, and I think
accurate, but somewhat harsh criticism
where he says the two the two most
consensus societies he's ever been to is
San Francisco and Beijing. And I think
that's like quite accurate, actually. Um
where San Francisco is probably the most
consensus place I've ever been to. And I
think that is both a huge clutch for us,
but it's also probably our most valuable
asset. Because as a founder, if you're
building in like I don't know like AI or
like stablecoins or something that San
Francisco believes is very consensus,
but the world does not believe yet.
That's actually a great operating
environment. Because you can go and you
can have these like outlandish ideas
that other people are going to believe
in, that nobody across the world will
believe in. And you can build this in a
very like safe way. And that's why
Silicon Valley and San Francisco is so
is so dynamic and we're so ahead of the
curve. But we also have completely lost
touch with how the rest of the world
operates, or even like everyday American
operates. And you've probably seen this
kind of smack us in the face over the
past of the past decade or two. And so,
I think it's very important to go to
places that don't have that same bias.
And I think if you think about emerging
markets specifically, the founders who
build there, there's the everyday
people, they live in this constrained
society. They're constrained in a way
that like San Francisco and New York
isn't. And that breeds a different type
of creativity, it breeds a different
type of innovation that you really can't
get anywhere else. Like if you go to
talk to people in London or Vienna or
Mexico City or San Francisco, whatever,
people are living in to an extent in a
world of abundance. And that causes a
very like specific creation cycle.
Why if you go to Kinshasa, which is the
capital Democratic Republic of Congo,
it's going to be the largest city in the
world in in probably 5 to 10 years. I
think it's already larger than most of
the mega cities. Wow. Probably 95% of
people in Silicon Valley couldn't tell
you what Kinshasa is the capital of. But
like, you know, just tens of millions of
people
that live in a highly, highly
constrained society. And so, that breeds
a sense of creativity, that breeds
ideas, that breeds stuff that you can't
really get anywhere else outside of
emerging markets. So, that's one. And
then second for my business, like the
dollar is fundamentally global. And the
dollar tends to be strongest in places
that we could imagine are relatively
dollarized. Places that are dollarized
tend to be more emerging markets where
they are using the dollar as their main
currency either unofficially or
officially because maybe they can't
trust their central bank, maybe they
have a history of like super bad
inflation and the country got implicitly
dollarized. And so, those places tend to
actually need US financial services more
than, I don't know, you know, UK and the
GBP is pretty strong or, you know,
France. Those places don't need American
financial services as much as maybe some
parts of the emerging world do.
>> So, sticking with Kinshasa as the
example,
>> so, you go there, what are you doing
there? What are you discovering? Say
more about like this the constraints you
encounter there.
Like teach us a bit about I've never
been to Kinshasa. They operate in a
world where there's actually like a
relatively large markets. You know, DRC
I think that's an example, is, you know,
one of the largest exporters, if not the
largest exporter of some critical
minerals in the world, right? So, there
is a lot of money flowing through there.
It's a massive exporter. It's a place
where um there's a lot of Chinese
investment. You know, Africa broadly has
had more Chinese investment than
anywhere else in the world outside of
Pakistan. And so, there is money, and
there's a lot of people doing things,
and the population growth is absolutely
bananas. I mean, the population growth
in Africa is probably larger than
Western Europe, North America, and parts
of Asia combined. While they may be, you
know, GDP per capita quite small,
there's still a lot of going on. And
where there is, there are founders that
are building super cool things. The
large companies actually tend to be
quite innovative, and I can kind of talk
about that in a second. And so, you just
I talk to them. I meet a ton of people.
I'm meeting CEOs of the largest like
multinational companies there. I'm
meeting kind of founders on the ground.
And I'm talking them through like, "What
are you building? What is your
perception of America? What is your
perception of American financial
services? Like, how can we be helpful?"
And you just honestly, I spend a lot of
my time time just like walking around,
kind of ideating, just like taking in
the scenes. And sometimes, you know,
quarter of the time I'll come up with a
really interesting idea that ends up
building us like a cool product or just
a good market. That's an example of
that. I probably have 90% of my ideas
either in the shower or like walking
around or like a random emerging markets
country. It kind of expands your senses
a little bit. If I'm like walking down
the Marina Green or I'm like walking
through the Mission in San Francisco,
like kind of the only thing I'm thinking
about is like, "Oh my gosh, like how is
AI going to change things?" Because you
can't walk around San Francisco and just
not get like completely hit with AI FOMO
24/7. But, there's other stuff we need
to do in order to get people up to like
mobile penetration. Like, take DRC, like
mobile phone penetration is still less
than 25%. Your banking penetration is
like still less than 5%. That's crazy.
>> There's like stuff we need to do before
we think about like embedding LLM in
everybody's brain. If that penetration
is that low, will you and your business
naturally benefit from that going up
based on the products that you're
building? Like, is that how you think
about some of these opportunities where
it's much lower hanging and just no
one's paying attention? The leapfrogging
that happened in Asia is obviously quite
well known, right? Like trying to skip
the laptop and straight to the mobile
phone most famously.
You know, we strip we we we shipped you
know online e-commerce and like went
straight to straight to social commerce
in China. Like there's going to be
leapfrogging as well. You're going to
see the same thing in financial
services. Like financial services tend
to be most innovative and most
progressive in like the worst countries.
You can see this in Argentina, you can
see this in Iran, you can see this in
other places. Like the Iranian financial
system like say what you will, like it's
complicated. They have to deal with a
lot of incredible constraints and thus
they have built a lot of bespoke stuff
just for themselves because they do not
have access to global financial markets.
And when you get to design things from
scratch, you end up actually building
things, you know, a little bit
differently. And that's actually quite
interesting. If you look at these
emerging markets, take, you know, like
Africa for example, they were the first
ones to do mobile payments in M-Pesa
like decades ago. Well before like, you
know, Venmo. If you talk to them, they
are actually like quite a bit more open
and they are quite more like they are
used to this their their category being
so much disrupted. They also have a
like an interesting thing is they have a
a bit of a access to differentiated
capital. Which is if differentiated
talent, if you are and if you're in the
US like, you know, pardon pardon the
banks I'll kind of [__] on here, but you
do not have access to the top talent.
The top talents going to they're going
to run through our pic, they're going to
Google, etc. But if you believe that,
you know, brains are distributed
equally, you go to you go to Congo
there's going to be like some proportion
of like equally smart people as there
are in France. There are like there's no
like Anthropic to go to. They don't have
the ability to move to move to London
and go to DeepMind. But there's a still
like a pretty decent talent pool there.
They're going to go to where there is
job safety and where there is money.
That tends to be in a lot of emerging
markets. What? Like the brewers and the
banks. That's where the money is. And so
the talent is at the middle level and
top can actually be like quite a bit
higher than people than people think.
I'd say you take you like a merchant
markets bank executive team
they're hands down is way better
than I think probably what you see in
the western world. They also have the
ability to to verticalize much better
than they do in the US because we
already have amazing software and
amazing retail experiences down the
entire stack. In most emerging markets
or developed country, like everybody has
like a bank account or a lot of people
have a phone have a bank account. So
they can actually cross-sell there
effectively. Like you and I talked about
this before, but I think one of the most
interesting companies out there is Kaspi
in Kazakhstan. Fascinating. Can you
explain it? They started out by by
buying a bank. And then they just kind
of built did everything.
>> Did everything. Like they're like the
largest like e-commerce company, the
largest bank, like you pay your taxes on
Kaspi. You like renew your driver's
license, it's on Kaspi. What they what
they realized is like where people start
is people okay, maybe people start in
social media, but they also start in
financial services. And so if we acquire
financial services, we can cross-sell
and we can distribute products there.
The largest bank in Congo is a bank
called Rawbank. Highly sophisticated.
Download the mobile app, it's way better
than anything we have here in the US.
You can like upgrade like your TV
subscription on it. Imagine like JP
Morgan doing that or Bank of America
doing that or Wells Fargo doing that. Or
candidly like US FinTechs doing that.
Even if they could build that, there's
no market for that. And so their ability
to land and expand is fundamentally
different. And you know, the good thing
for us is, you know, these countries
the main currency is is the dollar.
Um and so our ability to kind of
innovate with them is is much more akin
to what a FinTech looks like in the US
than maybe a large traditional bank.
>> Do you end up earning similar amounts of
revenue from outside the US as you do
inside because of these potential
relationships?
>> The US market is so good and and FinTech
is so developed and and I do think, you
know, like one of our thesis is like
fintech is probably going to be like the
last area that is somewhat maybe
disrupted by AI. I think what you'll see
is you'll see a collapse into like
domestic fintech and enterprise
software. And you're already seeing this
with like the ramps and stuff of the
world as they go kind of like deeper
into the workflow management side. Good
thing for us like some of our customers
are growing just like so quickly, but
the rest of the world is also it's it's
a it's a big part of our revenue. It's
something that we're super excited about
as well. Could be both like Western
Europe or emerging markets. Can you say
more about this comment that the Silicon
Valley along with Beijing is the most
consensus place? Like as you traipse
around California, what strikes you as
the strangest? Like you're building
something so different, you spend so
much more of your time away from there.
Uh you're able to kind of get outside
perspective despite being kind of of
that place originally. What would you
say is like stands out as the strangest
elements of it it and its culture today?
>> I'm a product of Silicon Valley, right?
I I I've been there since I was 21.
Started kind of some of the top
companies in Silicon Valley. I am like a
product of that, but I think as you get
older and as you travel more, you think
you have the ability to probably look
back and be more retrospective on the
society you grew up in. SF and Silicon
Valley like it's an elite dominated
society whether we like it or not. It's
probably more akin to Wall Street of the
1990s than it is to what we want it to
be which is like, you know, a research
lab in Cambridge in like the 1950s. Like
maybe that was Silicon Valley in the
90s, but it's not anymore. And what that
happens is like you know, you know,
elites end up building software for
elites. And I think that has somewhat
made sense because if you look at like
consumer buying patterns, people buy
something that's aspirational then it
moves down market. But when you do that,
you can start to drink your own Kool-Aid
a little bit too much and I think that
has probably happened in Silicon Valley
because we talk to each other, we build
for each other, and we think that like
the market is each other, but we don't
actually look broader than that. And the
companies that figure that out,
they do really well. You look at AI like
our research labs are are doing
fantastic
because that's like a consensus oriented
problem. It's you take a bunch of people
that are super smart
and you like pretty much like blind off
everything from the you and you can all
talk and you can all share ideas and
that's like a fantastic research place.
And we are going to win on that alone.
But as you think about like
applicability to people's like everyday
lives, people in Silicon Valley don't
live everybody else's lives. They don't
live in the lives of like Americans.
They don't live the lives of like I
think of outside the world. And so our
ability to actually build software or
have ideas or perspectives that really
resonate is probably at the low point in
the entire time I've been here. Like
Silicon Valley is not a popular place
and I think we we tend to forget that.
Like we think we're on the top of the
world, but I don't know what our
approval ratings are, but I think
they're probably pretty dang low. And I
think that's for good reason. And I
think it's something that, you know, I
at least try to focus on a lot because I
have to build software. I have to build
products that are applicable to like
outside the walls of of of San Francisco
and New York.
But that's probably less and less the
case. Most software companies try to
maximize your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that [music]
no one wants to spend hours chasing
receipts, reviewing expense reports, and
checking for policy violations. So they
built their tools [music] to give that
time back using AI to automate 85% of
expense reviews with 99% accuracy. And
since Ramp saves companies [music] 5%,
it's no wonder that Shopify runs on
Ramp, Stripe runs on Ramp, and my
business does too. To see what happens
when you eliminate the busy work, check
out ramp.com/invest.
Every investor should know about Rogo
because Rogo AI's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work from
sourcing, diligence, and modeling to
turning analysis into deliverables.
[music]
For me, three key things differentiate
Rogo. First, it connects directly to
your systems so it can work with your
actual data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end-to-end and produces
real outputs the way [music] the best
people do. Auditable spreadsheets,
investment memos, diligence materials,
and slide decks that match your
standards. [music]
This all comes from the fact that Rogo
was built by finance professionals for
finance professionals, and it's already
being adopted by some of the most
demanding institutions [music] in the
world. To learn more, visit
rogo.ai/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why.
[music] To achieve enterprise adoption
at scale, you have to deliver on core
capabilities like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and
audit logs. That's where WorkOS comes
in. Instead of spending months building
these mission-critical capabilities
yourself, you can just use WorkOS APIs
to gain all of them [music] on day zero.
That's why so many of the top AI teams
you hear about already run on WorkOS.
WorkOS is the fastest way to become
enterprise ready and stay focused on
what matters most, your product. Visit
workos.com to get started. [music] One
of the things that you've done that's so
unique is not raise money. Yeah. Uh but
but built at a a pace and a scale that
looks as though you raised a ton of
money. It's why I say it's it's huge.
Talk about that decision, what what
building a company where you and the
employees basically own the whole thing
feels like relative to having built, you
know, a marquee company that was
venture-backed. And just like I want to
go into all the various lessons that
you've learned.
>> spend a lot of time in this section. But
at a high level, like why did you choose
to do it this way in the first place? I
started Plaid and I kind of did like the
the standard Silicon Valley playbook.
You're like you have to like ideate, you
have to build stuff, and then you like
put a deck together, and you go to like
these like 80 venture capital firms, and
like hopefully one of them gives you
money, and then like every year you like
move up the alphabet. And I think that
worked, and you know, Plaid is a a very
successful company. I'm very lucky to
have started it. But the things that
Silicon Valley sometimes gets confused
by is they're like, "Okay, you're either
like a venture-funded company, and if
that's the case, you're like ambitious,
and you're going to build amazing
software, and you can like amazing like
amazing products. Or you're like a like
a bootstrapper, and you're going to like
write a lot of thought pieces on
Twitter, but you're going to like hire
like subscale people, and you're going
to like grow a amounts, and it's going
be a cute lifestyle business. And I
think you can actually be highly
ambitious, and you can hire like the
world's best talent, and you can build
like a massive doubling company without
actually being being able to be addicted
to to venture money. What we do is we
say, "Okay, like we are going to grow by
our earnings. We're going to make sure
that 100% of employees and myself like
like own the company for the foreseeable
future." It makes it a lot harder. It
does definitely put some constraints on
your business. But not only for, you
know, the net worth of like myself
employees, but also culturally,
it's actually quite a bit more effective
because, you know,
being long-termism is is probably a
little bit of a trait saying,
um but I think it does actually help us
do that. I think
yes, Silicon Valley companies are
probably like more long-term oriented
than your average business in the US,
but I think the hamster wheel of VC
doesn't actually allow us to be
long-term.
Because if you are having to spend a lot
of money for employees, and you're
you're burning at a rate that you have
to raise every like year, year and a
half, you end up optimizing for that
next fund raise.
And you say, "Okay, stablecoins are like
cool this year. Let's do a stablecoin
strategy. Okay, AI is cool this year
because like I need a AI strategy." And
so your business maybe is like kind of
going in the general direction, but it's
definitely taking a pretty windy way to
get there because you need capital. And
so I think it's very rational what you
are doing, but that's not going to be
the straightest line to your goal. I
sometimes make this joke, maybe not
appropriate, but like like VC money's
kind of like heroin.
Like it feels good.
It's amazing.
But like you got to keep shooting up.
Like it's very challenging to get off.
Like I I know very few people that have
like
>> Tried heroin once.
>> Yeah, like you'll try heroin [laughter]
once and they're like, "Wow, that was
awesome. I'm off, right?" It's like, how
many people do you know that like raised
like a hundred million dollars Series A
and then they're like, "I'm done." It
just doesn't happen. And and I kind of
think that, man, like you raise a
hundred million dollars, you should be
able to raise like you should be able to
build a couple billion dollar business
after that. What Why do you need to keep
raising it? And there's a lot of
structural reasons for that and in the
fact that San Francisco is a bit like a
factory like is by design and I think
that is it can be like quite effective
but I think for the like the ambitious
founder I actually don't think it's it's
it's the right thing. And for us you
know I can I can I can invest in things
that I think are going to have like a
10-year payback and I'm like totally
fine with it. If we grow 80% versus like
110%
it doesn't really matter that much. Like
as long as we're profitable and as long
as we're building the software we want
and as long as we're growing at the rate
that we want I just don't have the same
constraints and that is I think freeing
in a way that most companies can
operate.
>> What's an example of something that
you've done or made a long-term
investment in that you think you
wouldn't have done if you had been
venture backed? I mean here like like we
bought a regulated bank when we were
early. I think that's like you know it's
probably like a little bit cooler now in
this new administration but we bought a
regulated bank during the the first
Biden administration and that required
us like not grow or like not focus on
revenue for like two three years and do
a bunch of stuff that inherently doesn't
scale. Like it's not like buying a bank
is not a software defined problem.
That's not like a great use of
like venture capital dollars that you
expect to grow. And that was a
relatively non-consensus bet at the
time. Like there's just no way that
could have happened. There's no way
somebody would have been like oh we want
to buy a software company right? We want
you to do stable coins. We want you to
do AI. That's just not a that's not a
fundable thing. So I think and and then
able to just kind of invest behind that
for a multi-year period before we
actually take on clients like people
think they're long-term focus but it's
just not. I think we're able to also do
like weird stuff with employees that
doesn't scale. Like what? We
like pay employees like you here's
$2,000 a month to go to your rent or
mortgage if you live two miles with the
office.
Like that doesn't inherently scale but
it's like massive cuz now I can get
people who live close to the office they
feel great because they're getting like
a huge part of like all of their housing
and stipend in San Francisco subsidized
but like I don't know it's like you know
like is that going to be a good use of
like venture capital money? Like
probably not. So we can just do all this
stuff from an employee perspective, from
a retention perspective. You know, what
we do every single year, we take 25% of
our earnings and we just buy back our
shares with employees. So, we just run
our own tender every single year. It's
been great for retention. They're able
to actually get liquidity to employees
when they need it. And it allows people
to like, "Hey, believe that we're like
in this venture growing business." But,
if you're if you know, you're in a VC
business, you're like, "Hey, you should
be using like 100% of that money for
growth." We say, "Well, actually, we
don't necessarily think that. Like,
we're quite profitable, so we can afford
it. So, we can invest in growth, but we
can also invest in employees." That's a
really good example. So, maybe just to
pull it apart a bit more. Are you vest
Are you granting equity to people in a
similar way that a normal startup would?
That vesting over some period of time
and then just every year saying we'll
buy back some portion of that to provide
That's how That's how it works,
literally?
>> I mean, like structurally, we look
exactly the same as like a high-growth
startup, right? We grow after the same
people. We have like all the same perks,
if not more. So, we operate very much
like a high-growth Silicon Valley
startup. We happen to also be like quite
profitable. So, like when I kind of tell
people, "Okay, I'm at like our profits
every year." It's like, "Imagine that's
like our funding round." Like, each
year, like on January 1st, we like raise
a massive round each year. That's how I
view it. There's part of it that's going
to be used as like a tender, that we're
going to like buy back company shares,
and the rest of it we're going to put to
growth.
Oh, by the way, you also haven't diluted
at all.
By the way, you also don't have any pref
stack. By the way, like we get to make
our own decisions. That's super
compelling. So, I can hire someone to
say, "Over a 10-year period, you're not
going to be diluted."
I think what times people kind of forget
is if you're early-stage founder, like
you're going to lose probably 50 to 75%
of your equity value due to dilution
alone. You may lose 10 to 80% of your
upside by the preference stack. These
are like weird economic things that
people don't really understand until
they've been doing this for like 5 6 7 8
9 10 years or seen an exit. Like, with
us, we say, "Hey, like just don't worry
about that stuff. Like, what I give you
is what you're going to have. And by the
way, you have liquidity. You have
liquidity on a yearly basis going
forward. That's like super compelling to
people.
>> How have you honed the communication of
that idea to a new employee so that they
get it? Because I think so often people
just say, "Oh, I got these many shares
and like this is the you know, this is
the valuation and if it goes to this
valuation, I can just do the I can do
the math." But that's not actually the
math of what like they'll take home. So,
how do you how do you frame it to
people? We're far from perfect. I think
one of the things we do is we target
people that this is their second
company. Like we are
like we are not we're probably like not
the best place for a new grad to land.
If you got to land, they're going to
they're going to go through this
calculation of where all of my friends
going. What is the like what is the
number one company in Hacker News I read
all the time. What's all like the
thought leaders talking about on
Twitter. It's like actually not a bad
strategy. Like if you're a new grad,
that's probably relatively fair. But you
aren't really going to be thinking about
some of this some of this kind of
nuance. And it's honestly not as like
hard as you as you think. It's actually
like quite refreshing. We go to people
and we're like, "Hey, we like we're
super fast growing, but we provide you
yearly liquidity. Oh, by the way, here's
like some very basic math on preference
and dilution. And here's why you can
actually make way more money for the
same equity value." It's a hard story
for a 21-year-old. It's actually a
pretty easy story for a 25-year-old
that's been through like six rounds and
four pivots at their previous company
and don't have anything to show for it.
Does this empirically show up in
employee retention numbers versus like
Silicon Valley norms? We have almost
almost close to no no regretted
attrition, which means kind of
people that we'd like to stay end up end
up staying. I think there's probably a
couple there's a couple of reasons for
that. I think one is second time around,
it's a lot easier. You know, like I
think I learned from a lot of mistakes
at Blend and I I know where to spend
time or where not to. And so I think
generally we're like a it's like a
probably more mature company than your
average Silicon Valley startup. So I
think A, that helpful. We're probably
better at picking talent. But also I
think we know what matters to people. I
think sometimes as like founders or VCs
like
we think that people join companies
because they want to become
billionaires.
And I think maybe that's true up to a
point, but the majority of people join
companies because, you know, they hit
into like their late 20s or their early
30s and like what are they optimizing
for? They're like, okay, I want to like
send my kids like a good school in
private school. I want to like maybe not
live with roommates in like a
one-bedroom apartment up until like I'm
35. Like how's their education? That's
super important.
You can't feed that on illiquid stock.
So how do you think about optimizing for
that? Think about like basic things like
team, culture, all that stuff. Like
people want to work for somebody who
feels like they are taken care of, not
just over like a 20-year period of like
here's your path to being like a
decamillionaire. They'll say like, do
people do they understand my short-term
needs? Can you take care of me in the
short, medium, and long term? And I
think sometimes we are maybe like too
long-term oriented. Sometimes they hey
yes, of course, come with me, we'll work
on this for 20 years, and you're going
to be like a decamillionaire after that.
That resonates with a certain type of
person, but it doesn't resonate with
everybody. And so building a company,
building a culture that actually
optimizes for every single point of an
employee's journey, an employee's life,
that's actually quite unique, and that
actually can lead to really good
numbers. How much of this was just
possible because you were already rich
at the start and had money to fund
something like this? Like is this is
this portable advice? Like could someone
else that hadn't had the experience you
had with Plaid do something like this
without taking outside money? I think
it's hard. I think it was definitely
successful first, but what I would say
is, you know, I without kind of going
into much detail, like I yes, I started
a very large company. I think I was
probably less liquid and less rich than
probably everybody everybody thought at
the time. [laughter]
Um you know, when I started this,
Plaid's a funny story, you know, we we
attempted to sell it to Visa for like $5
billion, and that's kind of the point
where I left to go start something. It
didn't go through. We got blocked by the
DOJ. And I did not sell my company.
Thus, I did not have any money.
>> [laughter]
>> And so I had like, you know, my maybe
like my liquidity versus paper wealth
was, you know, pretty pretty extreme.
And so I think I got a lot of
credibility from people being like, "Oh,
this guy's like rich."
>> He's rich. This guy's a billionaire.
Yeah, he's a Yeah, but like I did not
have any money. Without going into too
much details of it, like I pretty much
funded the entire company with debt. I
went to a bunch of banks.
And I said, "Here's a bunch of Block
shares. Like, please give me money." You
know, I got like a The best I got was
like [clears throat] a SOFR plus 10%
loan at like 5% LTV. And so, you know, I
pledged over a billion dollars of stock
to get $70 million. I bought the bank
for $70 million. I haven't had a lot of
money in my bank account for a long
period of time. And um and yes, and I
ended up, you know, the business became
profitable. I got to pay off that loan
over a period of time. But in the
process, I probably got margin called
three times and almost went bankrupt
multiple times. Talk about that stress.
Like, you got to like let us in the room
on that.
>> The first few years were definitely the
most stressful of my life because I I
had a fundamental thesis that we could
pull this off and we could build a a
business that 100% of employees and
myself owned. But to do that in a world
where you need to invest and not make
money for multiple years is very, very
challenging. And if the regulatory
climate at the time and the building of
the company, like that it was it was
intense. And you know, I have this loan
I have to pay off. It was it was
probably the most intense period of my
life. And as a founder, you have to
shelter that from everybody. You need to
be transparent, you need to bring people
in, but you also need to like not bring
people all the way's in. I had like
pretty extreme conviction myself and I
thought I like knew 100% of a
multi-decade period, I can I can pull
this off. But there's that quasi quote
of, you know, markets markets can stay,
you know, irrational longer than you can
stay solvent. And it's it's kind of
true. And you know, I look at that quote
and I'm like, "Which side of the
equation am I on today?"
>> [laughter]
>> And [clears throat] um you know, we
ended up making it through, but I think
the the idea of like, "Oh, like, you
know, billionaire buys thing and
self-funds it." It's probably a little
further from the truth than people
thought.
>> What's it like getting margin called in
that like what do you like what is the
literal thing happening? How do you
manage through that? Suffice to say, you
know, you own a you know, you owe a bank
a million dollars like, you know,
they owe you, you owe a bank a billion
dollars like you owe them. Like I think
that's a little bit I think that's a
little bit
>> That's true. I mean there's a reason
that like margin lending in private
companies is not
is is like not a great business because
when you want to take collateral that's
stock, that's usually the exact time
when you do not want to hold that
private stock. I have like immense
appreciation for the people that did it
for me.
Uh I'm not quite sure they got like a
great deal out of it and I'm not quite
sure I would definitely be in that
business. The reason I feel the the
story is important to tell is that it's
these things where so much of the value
gets created like the the extreme
entrepreneurial risks the act itself but
also the psychology behind it.
And I'd love you to just riff like one
bit more on what the psychology was like
and how your mind is different after
that three-year experience than it was
before even though you I know you'd
already been through the entrepreneurial
ringer with Plaid. What changed about
your mind, your perspective on the
world, like how did that experience
affect you? I think that the good
founders bet on themselves
and take an extreme amount of risk to do
that. And I think the extreme amount of
risk part is something that we no longer
have.
But when like
when there's like literally only one
door in front of you,
you don't have a choice. You have to go
in. And in that in that fear, in that
like
in innate desire creates like another
part of you. It creates creativity, it
creates inspiration. Like it's extremely
valuable part of the founder journey.
And in many ways, I think in Silicon
Valley, we've actually removed that. If
you think about most founders these days
like like I talk all the time like,
"Hey, you talk to a 23-year-old." I'm
like, "You know what? I'm thinking about
go going to be like the 12th employee at
this this
or starting a company between for
myself." And I don't know. I'm like kind
of like mixed.
And we've created this like incredible
environment in Silicon Valley that it's
really safe to start a company. And
there's like a playbook and you go
through YC and assuming you're like
moderately competent and went to the
right high school and college, you're
going to get like a $3 million seed
round. And at worst case scenario, you
can like, you know, you can go work at
like a great company as an engineer and
like you'll be like have a founder on
your resume and like life is good. And
that has created a lot of value.
>> [gasps]
>> But I'm not quite sure created a lot of
great founders and a lot of great
companies because there is no risk in
that proposition. And if you go back to
even like, you know, pre-2008 or
something like that, like
you're like on you're on the edge of the
knife. And I think that creates just so
much intensity and creativity and fear
that is such a critical part of the
founder journey.
And I don't know why we don't talk about
it more.
Like we don't create environments where
a founder has to bet themselves. And I
think if we did that, like I think we'd
actually be in a slightly different
place. I always am somewhat perplexed by
you know, like I'm a second time
founder, but I'm not alone. Like there's
a lot of great founders I shall not name
that, you know, have made a bunch of
money. And you go digging and they're
like they're like, "Oh, here's my like
second company, third company." And you
dig into that and like of the $100
million they've made, they're putting
like a million dollars of the capital
risk and they've raised like $500
million. And I'm always like, "Why? Like
if you believe in this if you believe in
this so much, if you're going to
dedicate your life to it, like why the
[__] aren't you going all in?" And if
I'm an employee, I look at them and I'm
like, "You're asking me to go all in,
but you can't go on." Cuz the weird
thing is an early-stage employee takes
way more risk than an early-stage
founder. Explain that.
>> Kind of messed up, yeah. So let's talk
through an example here. So I'm a
I'm a 24-year-old. I'm making TTC
perspective 400k, 500k at Google and
Meta or something like that.
Okay. And I'm going to go to early-stage
company and I'm going to go get 1% of
this company and I'm going to make like
$90,000.
Well, I've now changed the trajectory of
my life. I can no longer buy a house.
I can no longer go on the vacations I
want. So, I'm making like a 4 to 5 year
trade-off where I'm saying, I'm going to
make pretty much no money over the next
4 or 5 years, but maybe in 5 6 years I'm
going to make like millions of dollars I
couldn't make at Google or Meta. That's
like That's actually a lot of risk. I'm
now going to now like say I'm going to
live with my my friends instead of
living by myself. Like I'm making
massive massive changes to my life. But,
as a founder,
like
you're not. Like you know like it's a
much higher likelihood that the next
round regardless of your company, you'll
be able to sell some secondary. You know
that you'll be able to like if it if it
shuts down, you can go be an employee to
a great company with a CEO on your
resume. That first employee, they have
like first employee like a failing
company, that's actually not a great
resume line item.
And so, we've de-risked the founder, but
we haven't de-risked the early stage
employee.
And I don't think we should actually
de-risk the early stage employee for
what it's worth. I just think we need to
I think we need to increase the the the
the the risk for founders. I think we
need to make failure much more
expensive. I think we need to say, "Hey,
you're a second time founder, you have
liquidity, like put all of your money
into that." Like if you're going to be
asking this of employees, you should ask
it for yourself. And I don't think we're
having that conversation enough. And I
think starting companies is just it's
too it's too [__] safe. Yeah. And
that's caused a lot of companies to be
just super safe companies. Like, "Hey,
we're going to like pivot to AI and like
wrap up an AI wrap Anthropic, whatever."
Like that's not bold. That's not
ambitious. And it's because we're
attracting founders that actually maybe
just like want to be employees. They
don't actually think
about the long term. They actually don't
think say, "Hey, if I don't pull this
off, like I'm going to become bankrupt.
My life is over."
Um and I think that's that's pretty
healthy. That's when you bring out like
the raw the rawness of humanity, and I
don't see that very much anymore. How
have you felt that in yourself? Like so,
how has your behavior changed or your
perspective changed or like just the
ways that you show up that are different
now than prior to this pretty extreme,
[laughter]
you know, extreme three-year period. You
know, I am not the most diversified
person on the planet. I own two things.
I own Column and Plaid. That's it. Like
I don't even own a majority of my house.
Um that is that is truly it. That Those
are the only two things. And
and that's and that's motivating to me.
Like yeah, like at at some point in my
life, you know, I I have a I have a I
have a 6-month-old son and um
I I I do need to probably diversify and
so that like is, you know, a
a goal for me at some point. As a
36-year-old, you should probably not be
this concentrated.
Um but it's also like that's that's what
makes building companies unique. Like
yes, like I there's probably a lot of
people that look at me and they're like,
"Oh man, like, you know, billionaire,
amazing." Maybe California will look at
me and be like, "Oh yeah, billionaire,
amazing."
>> [laughter]
>> But it's probably a little Give me some
of that liquid equity. But I think
that's what makes it special. I think
that's what that's what drives me every
day, which is if you don't have
something you are driving towards, so
such as for me, like, you know, like
solvency, that is it it's really hard to
be motivated every day. The other thing
though, too, is that um very often the
thing you own and control and are
building might be your best investment
and and getting money out of something
is costly from a tax standpoint and
other things. So you're in some ways
you're just like continue to be all in
on what you're building. I mean, I I you
know, it's like bet on yourself. I'm
sure like every like, you know, fancy
executive has probably told you that,
but I I think it is it is somewhat true.
Compounding on yourself is probably the
best investment to make. Like I I'm not
a generalist.
Like I'm a specialist. I'm like probably
the best in the world at like a couple
small boring stuff. Like I I'm like
really good at creating really confusing
boring-sounding companies that's really
hard to explain on podcasts. And I think
that's like that's like my expertise.
That's like my niche. [laughter] I feel
pretty confident in my business because
I do not think in my business you want
to compete with me. I'm like I'm mean,
I'm hungry, and I know my little niche
space better than anybody in the entire
world.
And if I'm like investing or doing
something else, I'm like, there's like a
me on the other side of that trade. Like
I don't want to do that. I'm a builder.
I think sometimes there's a trap
where builders ain't their investors,
and investors ain't their builders. And
there were cases when you can do both.
Um but in a world where it's
increasingly competitive, um I do think
the world for builders is going to it is
is the world of specialists.
Um and you have to go extremely
extremely deep into your area, and
that's where you find that's where you
find value. And like I I probably have
read more about
>> [clears throat]
>> just like the history of my space, the
history of financial services, like like
like I study, you know, I studied banks
in Japan in like the 1800s. I you know,
read like a very boring 2,000-page book
on the history of like banking in in
China in the 19th century. And there's
stuff I got out of that. What's
something Sorry, that book, but like
what's something you get out of that
degree of extreme study? The hard part
about this is you probably get like one
small thing in a 2,000-page book. And so
it's probably like not efficient unless
you own a thing that happens to be in
that space.
>> on it. And that like one little thing
can create like millions of dollars of
value. To the next case, like hundreds
of millions of dollars of value. And so
without kind of going too much into
detail on it, like like that is like
that's where you find that's where you
find your leverage. Um and you know, I'm
pretty good at This notion of being the
best in the world at the thing you do is
really interesting to me. It it seems
the environment today makes that harder
than ever cuz there's so much
distraction. Totally. And there's such a
high rate uh and ease of comparison.
Yeah. Um which is certainly the thief of
joy. Yeah. Um but but it's really hard
to ignore people doing other stuff,
Totally. spending a 30-year day reading
about Anthropic or whatever. It's
exciting. Totally. So
what have you learned about how to
become apart from reading, you know,
obscure 19th century Chinese banking
books? Like, what else have you learned
about how to become the best in the
world at what you do?
Assuming that there's lots of people
interested in that like that mission or
that idea. So, I think one of the
best determinants for success of
founders
is can they find the most boring thing
humanly possible interesting? And can
they find that interesting over a
multi-decade period? Like,
who doesn't find like AI interesting?
Like, yes, geopolitics, fantastically
interesting. There's all these like
general topics that are quite broad that
is very like mass market interesting.
And that's what makes Twitter so
fascinating. That's why podcasts are
fascinating is because people like to
feel that they are they're like really
smart across a broad swath of
categories. Um but that that doesn't
really align to company building. Um so
many people right now are thinking about
and are have a lot of knowledge around
how AI is going to disrupt software. How
AI is going to disrupt vertical
software. How AI is going to like be the
next like CRM. These are like generalist
topics that I can probably find a
thousand people that have like pretty
like interesting compelling ideas and
can go pretty deep on that. But you
can't create value there. You can create
value if you're like, I'm the number one
person in the entire world at this
little niche thing and I think this
niche thing can be like can generate
billions of dollars from revenue over
time.
But the problem is is those places are
really boring.
Like, the fun ones like food and like
surfing in Thailand or whatever. Like,
those are solved categories. Like, yes,
I would also love to be an expert on
like hospitality in like Thailand and
Southeast Asia. Like, that's a fun
problem. I could imagine one going niche
on that for like a multi-decade period,
but that's solved problems. But I think
finding the extremely boring thing that
requires you to read hundreds of
thousands of pages that you cannot like
Gemini deep research your way through,
that's where value is. But, it's [__]
boring for a lot of people. Like you
have to like you have to suffer in
silence for a huge amount of time. And
if you can find that, you know, you can
find that like super fascinating and you
can like love to learn that, then I
think you'll be successful. But I think
it's a it's a it's a minority of people.
Like like like my partner kind of gives
me [__] all the time, but like on earth
do you find that book interesting? Like
what is wrong with you? Um and I was
like, well, like if I don't, like you
and I are going to be super poor. You
You said earlier that building a company
for the second time is a lot easier than
the first time.
>> Yeah. What are the most uh extreme ways
that that's true? Like what what are the
things that you've done the most
differently this time than the first
time?
Your experience is valuable. Like I
started uh I started Plaid right out of
college and I think um Zach, who is my
absolutely incredible incredible
co-founder, we both kind of said like,
man, if we would have just like worked
at a company for like 9 months, we would
have learned a lot. Like we would have
always saved like 3 years. Because the
amazing thing about working at a
company, especially an early-stage
company, is you just like you just get
like fail forward all the time. And
that's like incredible. That's an
incredible lesson. But like when you
fail forward as a founder, that's a lot
of dilution.
That's a lot of time. That's a lot of
like wasted resources. And if you could
do that on somebody else's dime,
amazing. Now I think it's like a little
bit easier cuz like everybody's YouTube
videos are like, you know, YC Startup
School and there's like a playbook and
there's like some PDF for everything and
you can probably like Gemini your way
through like the early-stage part of a
company. But experiences matter a lot.
What about picking talent? Like how how
what things do you optimize for now that
uh have been honed because of your prior
experience? And people always think
about employers and it's like you're
going to missionary mercenary framework,
right? Which is like like you have to
look into an employee like what like
what do you want to do? There's like the
mercenary type, which is, okay, super
smart, probably super pedigreed. And
like and really what they're doing is
they are using your company as a
launchpad for something else. They are
using They're using your company to like
collect a bunch of like two-year vested
options from like the top five companies
and like hoping one of them goes up.
That can be a valuable employee, but you
have to have a very like specific type
of company that is used to like that
churn and burn in order to take
advantage of them. Then you have like
the missionaries, right? Which is um
hey, like
you This person is very mission-focused.
They're very like The inspiration is
super important to them. And if you get
that right, they will go to like the
ends of the earth for you regardless of
like their short-term benefits.
People also have
some downsides as well, which is, you
know, the moment maybe you want to be a
little bit more commercially oriented
and the moment you have to maybe make
tradeoffs on your mission or something
like that, that can cause a lot of like
societal unrest inside of your company,
right? And then there's like the third
category of employees, which are um you
know, generally what I think are
probably like the best which is like
this is a kind of a combination of
everything, but really what they care
about is they care about yeah, we want a
ton of upside, but we also want like we
want some stability. We also want people
that hey, like I get I like to be
friends with my coworkers. I like to be
in an environment that is like warm and
welcoming, but also gives me like the
near-term and long-term financial value
and I'm willing to like work really hard
to get there. Everybody has personality
types, everybody has different styles
and you kind of have to figure out what
is right for your business. But I think
it's very challenging to tell that on
LinkedIn. Like everybody's like, "Okay,
cool. Like you went to the right New
York prep school. Thus you went to like
the right like Ivy school that happens
have like this good engineering program.
And then you have like, you know, these
these couple like LinkedIn things that
are like good for me and like boom,
done." That can be super successful, but
that is also that's also not the right
for everything. And so just I think
getting that kind of hone for talent is
is super important. How much do you care
about mission? It's like it's an
interesting
part of the equation. You need a
mission, right? Otherwise people just go
work at hedge funds. Like you need to
say like, "Hey, we are building
something bigger." And I think we
absolutely are.
But I think mission can actually be a
little bit distracting. I think a lot of
times people focus a ton on like, "Hey,
what are like the values of my company?
What good are we doing?" And I think
that's like an important part of the
equation, but I think it's like on a
list of five things most important, I
think it's probably on the bottom end of
that five list. And I think a lot of
times we can be kind of distracted by
that. And I think that's because when
you're pitching investors like investors
want to feel like they are like they are
part of something. They want to feel
that like, "Man, like I'm not just like
recycling pension fund money into like
other capitalists." Like even that's
what we do, like we want to feel like
it's it's bigger than that. And so I
think we've taught people that like,
"Man, you need to focus on like the
millennia journey. You need to focus on
like the impact that we're doing." And
like yes, like you know, the numbers go
up, but like numbers go up is like only
like one part of the equation. Um and I
think that's like important for
employees, but I think it's like
sometimes not the best. Like in the end,
like what do you want to do? You want to
convince somebody to buy your product
and like you deliver them enough of an
experience that they can't build it
themselves and they're going to pay a
lot of their hard-earned money to you.
Like that's the goal and that person
doesn't give a flying [__] about what
your mission is. They just care about
does this product create value for me
and am I willing to pay for it? That's
it. And if you if you start to like you
know, drink your own Kool-Aid too much,
you kind of forget that. It makes me
smile to think about your earnings and
cash flows. It's like such a novelty
that a company like yours would have a
bunch of this. Yeah. Uh at this you
know, so young in its life and at this
scale. How do you pick your margins?
Like how do you think about um how
profitable to be and why? You mentioned
earlier that it's like having a funding
round every year. Does that imply that
you're you're actually spending it so
you're not paying taxes? You spend it on
growth? Like how do you think about
>> [laughter]
>> earnings
in a high-growth technology business?
Our customers pay us for safety and our
companies pay us for longevity. It's a
unique thing about financial services
where I'm going to look at you as a
customer like, "I'm going to be your
best partner over like a 10 to 15-year
period. Switching costs are really high
and they are putting a lot of you like
your customer trust going to risk in
you. And and so I am playing like a
longevity and a risk game just as much
for me as my customers. I take that
extraordinarily seriously. And I think
earnings and being profitable and
sustainable and not and not relying on
somebody else's decision-making
framework is extremely critical for our
customers. And and that's extremely
important to me as well. Like I I I I I
tell people I'm like like the risk falls
on me.
Like I can't pass my risk to some other
venture fund or like their LPs or
something like that. Like I I want to be
like I want you to be successful. I want
you to be successful or not. Like I'm
the one who takes the pain here. That's
like quite That's like quite unique in
Silicon Valley.
Because, you know, at some point like
this company could get like your
critical vendor could get like acquired
or maybe the the founder could get like
a $20 offer from Anthropic and like it's
the rational decision for them to do
that. The many ways like we aren't
competing with other Silicon Valley
companies. We're we're competing against
maybe them doing it themselves or maybe
competing with them trying to like build
a patchwork of software vendors on top
of like a legacy bank or something like
that. And so I have to show that I am
more sustainable than you. And I think
that earnings is a critical part of
that. And I think, you know, people are
like, "Oh, well, like, you know, like
your margins may be opportunity type
then." And my argument would be like,
"You run this business at like a lot
lower margins, you're going to be
dependent on somebody else that you
probably don't want to be dependent on.
You also have to be introspective about
your business. Is Is my business the
type of business that if I raise a bunch
of money or I have a ton of earnings, I
can throw all of that back on growth?
And I think a lot of times in our press,
software companies, they they cannot
ingest like a huge amount of capital.
Like if you give me like a billion
dollars right now, I don't know if I
grow it like, you know, a thousand times
faster than I'm right now. And I don't
necessarily think I I I should. And so
what we do is we say, "Okay, like of
this earnings, what goes to employees,
what's going to go what's going to go to
growth, and what's going to go to like
capital, which is pretty much like in
case something goes wrong or like we
have a couple bad couple years like
NBD, we good, let's keep moving. Down to
the extent of now we're like, "Hey, if
something goes wrong for 10 years, how
are we like we're good." Like there's a
lot of societal change going on. There's
a lot of like crazy stuff going on in
the environment. I can totally paint you
a picture where like the markets gets
insane for the next 10 years. How do we
make sure I can survive that even with a
lot of our companies go up or you know,
the economies are going to change. That
kind of goes back to that like that that
war chest. Markets go like this. Like
sometimes like yes, like the line
through it goes like this.
>> it when you're one of the good ones.
>> Yes, that's exactly. And you know, and
and we you know, and and and we look at
slope, but a lot of times like we have
down years. And you need to be able to
weather through those down years. And
there's so many incredible companies
that just like couldn't survive through
like a couple bad periods. And you
really want to make sure you're not one
of those. As your business scales up,
everything gets more complex, especially
your compliance and security needs. With
so many tools offering band-aids and
patches, it's unfortunately far too easy
for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta [music] is a
powerful tool designed to simplify and
automate your security work and deliver
a single source of truth for compliance
and risk. There's a reason that Ramp,
Cursor, and Snowflake all use Vanta. It
frees them to focus on building amazing
differentiated products knowing that
compliance and security are under
control.
>> [music]
>> Learn more at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms. And
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more headcount, and
more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward, one unified platform that
automates away the complexity across
portfolio accounting,
>> [music]
>> reconciliation, reporting, trading,
compliance, and more all at scale.
Ridgeline is revolutionizing investment
management, helping ambitious firms
scale faster, [music]
operate smarter, and stay ahead of the
curve. See what Ridgeline can unlock for
your firm. Schedule a demo at
ridgeline.ai. [music] If you were in a a
classroom setting and it was a bunch of
founders or would-be founders and it was
a Chatham House rules off-the-record
session teaching them about working with
investors and what investors care about,
how they behave,
>> Yeah. uh things to look out for. What
what would be What would you What would
you tell them? I actually feel pretty
lucky where you know, I planned in the
early days we we actually had a pretty
hard time finding raising. The first
round I think we probably chatted with
like 80 to 90 investors and we got
rejected. And so I like sometimes I
think I have a reputation being like,
"Oh, like wins like somebody anti-VC."
It's actually like not for this one the
truth. I like Plaid would not exist
without VCs straight up. I just don't
necessarily think like the VC model is
perfect for every single type of
company.
Um or like maybe like a VC owns like,
you know, 10% of your company or 20% of
your company. Um and maybe the employees
yourself own like 80%. Like like there
are different cuts of this you can make,
but I think for me, I think picking
investors is important. I don't think
there's a lot of transparency in the
environment on like which investors are
seven-year timelines, which ones are
10-year timelines, which ones are like
actually truly super long-term oriented.
So I think figuring that out. But I
think the most important thing you
should do is say, "Okay, like
how am I like realistically
what does my margin profile look like?
What is my revenue growth over time? And
what how should I find a capital
structure that matches that? And am I
actually going to grow at a consistent
enough period? Do I want liquidity in 10
years that the venture the venture model
makes sense for me?"
Because the thing that people forget is
yes, growing 100% on a $10 million base
or $20 million base or $30 million base,
you know, it's not like it's not like
that hard. I be like shows these graphs
on LinkedIn like, "What are the fastest
company to get to $100 million like of
all time?" And like that's awesome. But
you know what's like much harder?
Going like above 30% a year off of a
billion-dollar revenue base. That is
like 99 times harder than going to zero
and 100 million in three years.
However, the venture model only works is
if you can grow above 30% off of a
billion, two billion-dollar base. And
you have to like really look inside
yourself and be like, does my model make
sense for that?
And can I do that in a way that I can
ingest hundreds of millions, if not
billions of dollars of capital on the
way, and put really good use to that.
Because I think sometimes businesses
grow at the rate of the market, or
businesses grow
differently than just dollar and dollar
out.
And the venture model is built off a
fact of you can make a company like an
ATM, which is you put in a dollar, you
get a dollar 30 back. That's not the
case with most markets. And so I think
you have to look really intensely at
yourself and your business to make sure
that works. And it And there's a like so
many amazing tech companies that works
for, and that's why that venture is like
a like a really good asset class in
Silicon Valley. It's probably like the
best place to accumulate anywhere in the
entire world, probably throughout all
history.
But that's not every single business.
And you have to look really intensely at
yourself and what to do that. Given your
unique perch, what have you learned
about how the world works through the
lens of this like dollar this dollar
focus, this demand for dollars being the
operating system for the, you know,
global dollar system? Like
through the lens of the dollar. Yeah.
Yeah. What what are your takes on like
the ways the world works or or interest
you that might surprise people? What the
dollar does and it it it connects
countries
in like very interesting ways. That I
think in the US, when you can pretty
much just build a incredible company by
like the by the US alone, you you kind
of lose that perspective. If you look at
the official stats,
um like like like most economies spend
less than 10% of their GDP um trading
with their neighbors. Um and that's like
been a big focus point of um
of the OECD over
over the while. But when you actually
dig into it, like the unofficial trade
that's going like not over like
government rails, it's actually closer
to 90%. And it just shows like how trade
and how money and how that stuff like
really connects these cultures and
connects these societies. And I find
that like super fascinating. But it's
And we can talk about like how that's
impactful in a lot of ways, but that is
something that we don't really get in
the US because the US has this like very
unique luxury of like we can almost
somewhat sustain ourselves. Like you can
sustain businesses only building for
yourself. The US market is just so
fantastic. Like I am so long the US as
I'm sure anybody building. You can
sustain yourself. You can become a
billionaire by like never truly ever
leaving America or never interact with
anybody outside of America. And that's
what it makes America so [__] unique.
I don't think we get like how much of a
luxury that is. But outside of the
world, like it is not. And that comes
down to trade, that comes to like
financial connectivity, that is so
impactful and it's so important. I think
you also forget how reliant the world is
on the US financial system. Like let's
take let's take two like insanely
developed countries. Let's take Qatar
and let's take
Switzerland, okay?
You're shipping gas
from Qatar to Switzerland.
I would argue right now like, you know,
probably neither one of these countries
like love America like a ton. That trade
is denominated in dollars. That the the
money that's moving from Switzerland to
Qatar,
from like Glencore to Qatar,
the Qatar gas company,
crosses through US financial
institutions.
It's crazy to think about. Let's think
about, you know,
who are maybe our two like quote-unquote
enemies, like China, Russia, okay? Um
China is a big importer of Russian gas
and oil.
It's kind of crazy to think about. That
trade is still denominated for vast
majority
in the US dollar.
That's mind-boggling.
That's a luxury and that's such an
insane national security strategy
that like nobody else has. Russia
doesn't want Chinese currency.
China China definitely doesn't want the
ruble. They barely have access to it.
They almost like hate each other as much
as they hate us.
And the fact that they eventually use
the dollar is still so critical. Then
you could argue that like maybe the
dollar is eroding over time and stuff
like that, but like still the vast
majority of like like 75% of global
trade still is in the dollar. That's
that's that's crazy and we don't
recognize that. Like the soft power the
American has or even the hard power the
American has with that is so is so
fundamental
to our life and the fact that like we
have such a strong economy. Do you talk
to your team as though this is part of
the mission that that like almost like
national security is part of the mission
because the importance of the dollar?
100%. One of the best kind of shifts I
think Silicon Valley has done is we now
are like, "Hey, like
Silicon Valley like we take an active
role in the national security of the
country."
I we we didn't 6 7 years ago. Even
though like like America like American
society American GDP growth is even more
than ever completely indexed on the
success of Silicon Valley. Like probably
too much and it's like way too levered
in that in that regard. But now Silicon
Valley whether it be whether it be
social media, whether it be defense,
whether it be software, whatever, we're
starting to recognize like our role in
the world. And financial services is
probably the most important component of
the app.
You can ask like you can ask any general
and like I have. It's like like they
want to use a sanction before they use a
missile.
The great thing about a sanction, the
great thing about the dollar, you can
enforce American dominance without
putting in boots on the ground. Without
putting anybody at risk.
And sometimes you show in Venezuela it's
like, "Hey, like you kind of need both."
Like like the reason we were able to go
to Venezuela is because we had
fundamentally destroyed the economy
before.
How?
Sanctions, right? Like we had completely
collapsed like their ability to export
oil.
We completely collapsed their ability to
actually trade with other people. That
those that those that friction is real.
And so when we went in there, Venezuelan
people were probably like, "Yeah, okay.
Like we good. Like we're maybe not going
to try like shoot these helicopters from
the sky. Like we're pretty happy here."
That is fundamentally so amazing. If
France wants to like shut down another
country in order to go like enforce
their will,
like they have like an option. Well,
they have like two options, which is
like I don't know, like don't drink our
wine and like here's like some here's
some missiles, okay? Like the missiles
can enforce their will. Like they have a
strong military, they have strong
special forces, they can go do that. But
their lives, the special forces on the
ground, like they're going to have a
much harder time
because they haven't kind of in many
ways controlled that economy before. And
that is so so unique
to the US.
And I think China's obviously developing
this with trade and exports. Like one of
the things that China can do is they can
start to enforce their will by shutting
down a country from exports, right? And
so that that is real. And so I think
China has definitely this like
increasing might, but the strength of
the dollar and the nature of that is so
fundamental for national security. And
in many ways like we we don't talk about
it because it's a little bit
uncomfortable truth, right? Like I don't
think anybody wants to sit up there and
say like a like a global bank doesn't
want to sit up and say like like we're
part of the national security strategy
because like if the government tells us
to like we're going to collapse this
economy, right? Like that's not a that's
not like a fun narrative that people
want. But I think there was a there's a
way to tell that narrative that says
like, "Hey, like we are weapon that can
be used. Like when our citizens come to
harm, when we need to do something that
is like super important for the US
interest and we are part of that
strategy just in the same way that
Palantir is part of that strategy,
Lockheed Martin is part of that
strategy, Boeing is part of that
strategy."
And financial services is like is a key
pillar. Like you can argue that
financial services is like the first in
to wage a country, right? Like we start
with sanctions, we start on cutting them
off from the US from the US trade. We
start with that before we put boots on
the ground. What do you then hope is the
future of global financial services?
Like, obviously you're you're actively
building the technology backbone for it.
But, if you think big picture, how do
you hope the system changes? What would
be best for it? I still hope it's a US
bound.
And I think we sometimes want to believe
this world where
there's a lot of people in Silicon
Valley that I fundamentally disagree
with that want to put the power of
financial services outside of the US.
And the US has a lot of problems that we
can spend hours talking about.
I still think we're the greatest country
in the world. And we have change of
power every four years. Like, we change
our mind on stuff. Yes, there's like
there's like some problems, but we are
still we are still the best place to be.
And I think we are the ones that
we should still have the nuclear
weapons. We should still have the
nuclear weapons of financial services,
which is we control the world's the
world's trade.
And I hope that continues to exist. And
I think if we don't, I think if it just
hands in the power of other people, I
think that's a scary place. And I don't
think people have really like thought
through the ramifications of that.
If you look at most countries, financial
services still power, but it ends up
just accumulating
to government officials. It end up just
accumulating the power of a very small
elite. And say what you will about the
US. And there's probably way too much
power concentration in certain
industries. Financial services is
actually quite fragmented.
Um, but like JP Morgan is the largest
financial services company in the US,
but like it's not that dominant. It's
like it's like it's still pretty
diversified. Take Take Canada.
95% of Canadians have four banks. Take
Australia, it's even more concentrated.
You know, most countries are even more
concentrated than that. Like, we do have
a little bit in financial services today
a relatively decentralized financial
services system. It should still keep
fragmenting, right? We should still
disperse the financial power throughout
multiple US corporations, multiple US
people. We need to do a better job
there, but we're actually starting from
a pretty good baseline.
And then the other thing I tell people
as well is like there's this narrative
like, "Oh, financial services is
fundamentally broken." Like, our
institutions are actually pretty damn
good. There's this narrative sometimes
people talk about is like, "Oh, like US
financial services it's like built on
like Cobalt and stuff like this." It's
just not. It's just like not true. It's
like a fun talking point, but like
like I like I rack my brain hard with
the Federal Reserve and all of these
places. Like, there's no Cobalt in all
of these places. Like, it's actually
pretty good. Like
like I'll go on the record talking about
this. The Fed has a pretty good tech
team. Like, their systems are actually
like pretty good. If you think about it,
the US right now through the Fed has a
capability to move money and to clear
money through all of these institutions
24/7.
Faster than stable coins, faster than
crypto. Right now, as we speak. We've
had that for decades.
Systems are very good, extremely
reliable. They're fantastic. I think
it's very challenging for Silicon Valley
to build something better.
The problem isn't in the fundamental
infrastructure.
It's in our implementation of it.
The reason why community banks
can't send money 24/7 isn't because like
the technology doesn't exist at the Fed,
it's because there were constraints in
those business models that make it very
challenging for them to do.
Give an example. If you can send money
out of your community bank 24/7,
well, that bank could run on a weekend.
I don't know if you guys have ever like
been to a rural community, the community
bank with 50 people.
You can't get people to work on the
weekends.
Who's going to go there? Sure, if you're
JP Morgan, if you're Stripe, yeah, you
can manage 24/7 liquidity.
But, if you're a small community bank,
you can't have that. And so, I think I
think people conflate we don't have
something
we don't have access to something with
we don't have the fundamentally ability
to do that. But actually the reason is
implementation, not the underlying
infrastructure.
I feel like because of your unique setup
as a business and your unique focus on
the boring problems you described,
um you have such interesting perspective
on so many things. Is there anything
that we haven't covered either about
company building or the way that the
world works
that um
that you think is interesting that we've
missed?
One of the things that
I think about like, okay, like AI is
here. We're probably like much closer to
AI side than people think. And it's
going to be a tidal wave through the
economy. You have to think about like,
okay, like what's the implications for
your business? And and I think
in my perspective is like, if you're not
a researcher, if you're not a lab, how
do you play? And I think one of the
things I think a lot about is, okay,
like I actually don't think like
AI companies
are very set up for success. That's
actually probably not where value is
going to accrue. The value is going to
accrue like in two areas.
And the most important area I think, do
you have massive distribution? Because
if you have massive distribution, if you
have massive costs,
AI is going to be a massive benefit to
you.
And so the thing I think a lot about is,
okay, like how do you think about not
just from a software perspective, but
from a distribution perspective and a
brand perspective, that you would best
capture to utilize AI?
Because I think people talk a lot about
like, you know, the railroads. Like like
the value didn't like Yes, the value
accrued to the railroads. Yes, the value
accrued to the ISPs. Yes, the value
accrued to the people like building the
mobile phones. But the value actually
accrued to the people that could like
harness that the best. Like the value in
railroads accrued to the oil companies.
That's like not like That's like a
little bit like hard to fundamentally
understand. The Standard Oil was the
biggest beneficiary, biggest benefit
railroads by by by an order of
magnitude. Um
what is like the equivalent area for AI?
And I sometimes don't think we're
focused on that enough. Like
hot take here, I think like the biggest,
fattest, most inefficient brands are
going to be the best beneficiary of AI.
Because brands have a massive moat, and
man, there's a lot of caustic cut there.
How do you think AI will most affect
financial services specifically? Maybe
even just like your own products and
services. Financial services, especially
like take like large banks, um they
suffer from the fact that the business
model's too good.
Um
like banks are pretty profitable.
Financial services that's like it's like
if you're like on a bank and you need to
be more profitable, like that's like
that's a problem. Like you've clearly
done something wrong. Like the business
model fundamentally is really good. And
so that's that's made them laggards in a
lot of ways.
Um but that also I think makes their
massive opportunity where I think
financial services and like legacy banks
tend to be like the largest
inefficiencies out there. They also are
very hard to take over. Like there's not
a lot of private equity activity in
financial services because it's highly
regulated. And so I think the the large
banks that can actually effectively
harness that are going to be some of the
largest
beneficiaries. Because banks don't have
a lot of like
like physical assets. Like places that
have like massive CAPEX and physical
assets, it's like hard to like tell a
good AI story there. Like how's AI going
to make railroads more efficient if 99%
of your money is spent on like like
fuel, track maintenance, and people like
the human cost in railroads is like de
minimis. Like cool, you take you take
conductors down from like 1,000 to 500,
it doesn't like change the equation at
all. But if you think about a
traditional bank,
it's pretty it's pretty head count
focused, and it's pretty technology
focused. That's where majority of the
money goes to. Like the actual like
physical branch infrastructure is like
such a minority of your balance sheet.
And so and so I do think they will be
either be the most disrupted or probably
actually like the largest beneficiaries.
And so the banks that are like the most
effectively run have the largest
distribution, the largest cost structure
are going to be
uh the largest beneficiaries. I think
also the I think the UX of financial
services will change a lot because like
people think like oh my gosh, like my
bank is hard to use. My bank is hard to
move money. It's like slow to move
money.
That's that's actually a feature, not a
bug. I think what fintech sometimes
start with is they start with like hey,
we're going to make it like super easy
to like super free to move money all
over the place. It actually starts to
slow down. The reason it slows down is
because fraud is like super expensive.
And if you make it like really easy for
your grandma to send money to somebody
in Nigeria, like yes, that's like great
for remittances, but that's like really
bad for romance scams. It's really bad
for fraud. And so, but I do think
>> [snorts]
>> with AI
we can actually we can actually like
build those detection models like a lot
better. And so it's probably less likely
your grandma is going to fall fall prey
to elder abuse. And if the banks don't
have to optimize so much for that and
it's a it comes a little bit for free,
we can actually make the UX better for
everybody else. Because we have the
technology right now to make to make
financial services like almost entirely
instant and like entirely friction free.
All the friction is actually built to
protect the 5 to 10% of consumers that
can't get hurt. And people kind of
forget that. But I think if we can build
like models that are just as good as
human at detecting that stuff and that
can happen instantly, we can actually
take that tail away and it actually
is massively beneficial for everybody
else. Do you think it's a good time to
be an entrepreneur, a new entrepreneur
in financial services? Anybody who tells
you that it's a bad time to be an
entrepreneur, that probably means it's a
good time to be an entrepreneur. If you
look at that um like there's all these
like stats on Twitter that I'm sure
people have seen where like the best
companies are created in the worst
environments.
Um and I think that's generally true. It
is cheaper than ever to be an
entrepreneur.
And so it is as we talked about, it's
probably it's I think probably the least
risky time to be an entrepreneur.
It's also pretty crowded. Um
but here like
like I I know. You probably look at like
the last YC batch. I'm sure like my 90
plus percent of them were like AI
related. So yeah, I think it's actually
probably a pretty good time to be a
founder in a non AI related place right
now.
Because there's like
like probably less competition, less
smart people. I I think if you want to
be successful you can go look at every
single industry and you can say, "Okay,
who is the dumbest people
and what makes them most money?"
And if you go to like attack that area
it's probably a pretty good space.
The problem is sometimes you look at the
valley or founders you look at and say
like, "Hey,
we're all like the smartest people."
Okay, that's like yeah, it's like maybe
like a cool space, but it's probably
like the most crowded with the smartest
people and so your ability to compete is
like like your competition is pretty
intense. You know, YC puts out this um
you know, quest for startups. My
recommendation is like that should be a
list of startups you should not start.
Because by the time that it's so
consensus that this is a good area or
super interesting, the amount of capital
and the amount of smart people it's like
it's like you know, like moth to light.
I would almost go the opposite way.
Like, "Hey YC, I love you guys. Please
stop like continue to fund like you
know, our customers. You guys are
amazing. Um but as a founder I would
maybe be a little bit skeptical."
I think your perspective is so unique
and interesting. I always love talking
to you. I always find it very
inspirational
uh on the dimensions of just really
going your own way, but also just the
willingness to fall in love with some
part of the world and get devoted to it
and and just out learn everybody and
stick with it. Uh I love your I love
your diversification strategy of a
liquid plat and a liquid column. I think
you know my traditional closing
question. What is the kindest thing that
anyone's ever done for you? I've had a
lot of kind of people in my life, but I
think it's challenging to
to not look back and be like, "Oh, like
your mom and dad were like the kindest
people." Um my mom and dad did not have
uh
have the most like straightforward life
and not the easiest. And and my
childhood could have been a lot more
difficult than it was because I think
they
they insulated me from a lot of a lot of
things that were going on.
Um and you know, I had a I lovely
childhood.
And I feel super lucky for that. And I
think we were talking about it a little
bit.
Like
as a founder you have to be willing to
take on risk.
And and if you grew up in an environment
of fear,
if you grew up in an environment where
like you were constantly de-risking when
you're a little kid, it's very
challenging to feel comfortable going up
the risk spectrum as you grow into an
adult.
And my and I feel very lucky that my mom
and dad did that, you know, and they
also kind of taught us like it's okay to
fall. It's okay to get punched in the
face. Like see these?
They're all fake.
And that time I got punched in the face
and I've like lost teeth. It's honestly
kind of crazy. It's like kind of
embarrassing.
Um but I'm like, you know, it's
pretty good at getting punched in the
face. And and like that you can only
teach that as a little kid. You can only
like
have that childhood that makes that
comfortable in a very in a very specific
environment. And I think you know, I
have a I have a 6-month-old and as I
look at my peers and look at everybody
else, we are like quite obsessed with
creating this like
perfect environment for our children. We
send them to like the best schools. They
have the nicest people in their lives.
And and that is that is valuable, but we
may be creating children that can do
linear algebra at seven. And I guess
it's like going to be great. They're
going to be like great AI researchers.
But
is that what we're going to need
in 20 years from now?
Um or do you want kids that are going to
be like pretty good at taking risks,
that are going to be pretty good at
being punched in the face?
And and I think my parents did a really
good job at that. I feel very lucky for
that. If I copy all of my peers, I don't
know if that's like the that's that's
the path we're going to go down. And I
think the fact that I am like
pretty damn resilient um is a complete
product of my parents and I think that's
a huge gift and I I feel super lucky for
them every day. [music] A beautiful
place to close. Thank you very much,
Jim. Thank you.
Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back using
AI to automate 85% of expense reviews
with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, it's no wonder that
Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs on
Ramp, and my business does, too. To see
what happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com to see
what they can unlock for your firm.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why: to
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs.
That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise-ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Every investor should know
about Rogo because Rogo AI's platform is
not just another generic chatbot.
Instead, it was designed to support how
Wall Street bankers and investors
actually work, from sourcing, diligence,
and modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo. First, it connects
directly to your systems, so it can work
with your actual data. Second, it
understands your workflows, how work
really happens across a deal or an
investment. And third, it runs
end-to-end and produces real outputs the
way the best people do. Auditable
spreadsheets, investment memos,
diligence materials, and slide decks
that match your standards. This all
comes from the fact that Rogo is built
by finance professionals for finance
professionals. And it's already being
adopted by some of the most demanding
institutions in the world. To learn
more, visit rogo.ai/invest.